>> Everyone out there in the live stream, welcome, welcome.
Thank you for being here.
Put your comments, thoughts, feedback into the live chat and we'll try to make it part
of the show.
And with that, hello Boris, Victor, Jonathan, you all ready to start the podcast?
>> Yeah.
>> Ready to go?
>> Yeah, thanks for having us.
>> All right.
Cool.
Boris, Victor, Jonathan, welcome to Talk Python To Me.
Thanks for having us.
Glad to be here.
It's great to be here with you.
Welcome, everyone.
Yeah.
Hey, you all are doing really important work, and I'm super excited to talk to you about
it.
So we're going to talk about machine learning, how much Carbon is being used for training
machine learning models and things like that.
And some cool tools you built over at CodeCarbon.io and that collaboration you got going on there.
But before we get into all those sides of the stories,
let's just start with yours.
Jonathan, you want to go first?
How'd you get into Python?
- Sure, yeah, thanks for having us, Michael.
My name's John Wilson.
I'm an assistant, excuse me,
associate professor of environmental studies
at Haverford College.
I'm actually an environmental scientist.
So I was brought in to kind of consult
from the environmental side of this project,
but I have a secret history
as a computer science undergraduate
back in the dark ages, learning to code on C, C++, and Java.
And yeah, so I was brought in to provide
that environmental perspective on the project.
And having a little bit of a coding background,
despite how rusty it is, has been pretty helpful
at thinking some of these connections
through between computational issues
and environmental issues.
Yeah, I can imagine.
Did you find Python to be pretty welcoming, given a C background
and stuff?
Oh, gosh, yeah.
I learned back in the bad old days of,
not bad old days, I shouldn't say that,
Scheme, things like that, a little bit more challenging.
- Yeah, that's one of the first languages I had to learn
for a few CS classes I took.
I was like, "We're gonna start with Scheme."
I'm like, "Anything but this.
"Give me something mainstream, please."
- Yeah, sometimes I feel like the sort of older person
telling the kids these days about how we had to walk uphill
both ways in the snow to learn programming.
And it's much, much easier.
And one of the things I like about Python
is it's really accessible to people from different fields.
You get into it from aspects of natural sciences,
but even people who are in the digital humanities
are using it for language processing
and things like that.
It's super flexible, which is really neat.
- Yeah, it's really impressive what people
in those different fields are doing,
how they can bring that in.
Boris, how about yourself?
How'd you get into Python?
- I actually discovered Python during my master degree,
and I got a math teacher that introduced us to Python
because he used Python for his own thesis.
And I had one stuff to do,
which was implementing RSA encryption,
and I didn't want to do it because math was not my forte.
So instead I did some encryption inside images in Python,
and I fell in love with Python.
- Wow, fantastic.
Victor.
- I discovered this taking a data science class
in, when was that?
2014, I think it was.
So that's really, I really entered Python
through the data science perspective.
And then I took a course in general web development
and we used Django.
- Oh, right, nice.
- And so it's been, yeah, so it's been really like
the main language I've been using.
I was taught CS with Java and so on.
So I was never a computer science fan.
I liked math and I found Python to be really flexible
in that regard.
You can do math super easily
without getting lost in translation.
- Yeah, one of the things that just came out
is one of the new Texas instruments, the TI-84 calculator.
They have a, you can now program it with Python.
So that's kind of interesting now that it's one of the old,
the old calculators that everyone's probably used
going through math and whatnot is now sort of,
you know, more in the modern space.
- Yeah. - Yeah.
- I have a friend who, sorry, go ahead Boris.
- I think my first program was on my TI
because I was bored in math course and I cannot follow.
So instead I wrote some programs.
- Yeah, that's not a terrible way to spend your time.
All right, so yeah, let's go ahead and talk about
the main, get to the main subject here.
So let's start by just setting the stage.
There's an interesting article here that came out,
this is not even that new, it's 2019,
and it's in the MIT Technology Review.
So that gives it probably a little more
than just some random blog says this,
And it's got a big picture of a data center.
And the title of the article by Karen Ho is,
"Training a single AI model can emit as much carbon
as five cars throughout their lifetime."
So that sounds pretty horrible,
but we also know that machine learning
has a lot of value to society,
a lot of important things that it can do.
So here's where we are,
and this seems like a good place
to start the conversation for what you all are doing.
- I think one of the,
I have a mixed feeling about this article.
I think one of the great things it did is
raise a lot of attention and awareness about this topic.
I think a lot of approximations were made
and it was not, the goal here is not to criticize authors,
but rather to say that in the meantime,
things have evolved and our understanding has, I think, been a little more precise.
Also because people are building tools that measure it, instead of estimate.
So there's that, definitely. And we hope that helps. But it's also like one of the things
you need to put in perspective is that the kind of model they're looking at is not necessarily
your everyday model. Someone can just train on their local computer or even like, even
Even in academia, it's hard to get your hands on such large clusters and the number of GPUs
used and so on.
So I just want to put that in perspective that even if those numbers were accurate,
and they are not, but I mean, it's a ballpark.
It's not like every data scientist you'll meet and every AI researcher you'll meet is
is going to have something in that level of complexity
that they train every day.
>>I have over here a sim racing setup for some sim racing I do.
And it has a GeForce 2070 in it.
It would have to run a very long time
to emit this much carbon, right?
You've got to have the necessary money and compute resources
to even get there, right?
Yeah. I don't remember exactly the setup that they're looking at in this paper, but typically
the modern language models that you hear about, like, "Oh, OpenAI has a new NLP model and
like GPT-3, and it's that number of billion of parameters." They train those things on
hundreds and hundreds of machines for a very long time. This is not something we can do
it costs millions of dollars in investment up front.
And then just using those things is super expensive.
So while I think we should be careful,
it's not like the whole field is like that.
- Yeah, that's a good point.
That's a very good point.
I recall there was some cancer research
that needed to answer some big problem.
And there was an article where they spun up
something like 6,000 virtual machines
across AWS clusters for an hour
and had it go crazy to answer some protein folding question
or something like that.
That would use a lot of energy, but it's extremely, extremely
rare as well.
On the other hand, if you create that model
and it solves cancer, well, people
drive cars all the time for less valuable reasons
than curing cancer.
Yeah, I think just to build on what Victor said,
I think there was something really valuable
about this article coming out.
I think for a long time, there's been attention that's been paid to the sort of environmental
toll of supply chains in computing.
People have talked a lot about where minerals come from.
And I think one of the things that was really interesting about this article was with the
approximations, it got people thinking about the question that kind of animates our collaboration,
which is when you're doing any kind of energy intensive computational issue, you might want
to think about where your electrons come from.
actually powering the hardware that you're using to do this.
And I think this article did a really nice job of focusing
attention that there are some really energy intensive
projects that, in particular ways,
if they're located in particular locations,
they can have a really large environmental cost that
isn't really transparent to the user,
for the person training the model.
Yeah.
Well, I don't want to go down this road just yet.
I want to keep talking about the more high level a little bit.
But if the people who did this very expensive model,
if they just said,
"I'm gonna pick the closest AWS data center to me,"
that rather than,
"Let me find the data center by just flipping a switch
"and say, no, no, maybe the one up in Prinville, Oregon
"by the dam would be better than the one
"by the coal factory," for example, right?
Like that's something they could easily do
and it maybe doesn't change anything for them, right?
It's not always the case, because when you have, for example, health data and so on,
like there are legislations, but definitely like if you can, like, and there's more than
just the money at stake here, and it's probably going to be a marginal change because the
prices tend to be not equal, but kind of uniform still.
I think it's another decision item.
Yeah.
Boris, you got any thoughts on this article before we move on?
Yeah, I think it came with a good to highlight a serious issue and if people want to improve it,
as most of my manager told me, if you want to improve it you must measure it before. So we are
there to give a start of an answer to and give them action how to improve the cut carbon emission
on training models. Hopefully to not train less models but train better models.
Yeah, so one thing... Yeah, go ahead. Yeah, just one little thing. It's an IBM maybe
caricaturing, but I think the intent is the same. I think, for example, this is part of what
the recent Google paper about... led by David Patterson on training neural networks and their
environmental impact. This is one of the things they say. It's quite a dense paper and a lot of
metrics and so on. But one of the things they say is like, if you don't want people caricaturing
your numbers and putting approximations out there, well, you'd better publish those numbers yourself.
Right? And you need tools to do that. So if you're Google or if you're close to the
infrastructure that you use, it's easier. It's even better if you have access to the plugs.
But that's not the case of everyone, right?
Right. So you're saying if you could put something to actually measure
the electricity going through the wire instead of
some approximation, you're in a better place to know the answer.
Definitely. That's where I think, and we might be
a little ahead of your schedule, but we might get there still.
That's where Carbon comes into play. This is why we
we want to create this tool. This is a user-facing product. And I think it's very important to
highlight that. It is not intended to be the solution for a data center. This is not something
that we think should be deployed as a cloud provider or if you own your own infrastructure.
If you want to have centralized number, there are alternatives out there. Things like Scaphandre.
on a scaphander, I don't know how you say that,
it's a French word, anyway.
It's out there on GitHub, you can find it
by just looking this way, but like,
the role here is like, as a user,
what can you do if you don't have those numbers?
- Right. - Do you do nothing,
or do you try to have, to at least have the start
of an estimation, and maybe start the conversation
with your organization or your provider?
- Yeah, fantastic, and you guys are putting
some really concrete things out there
for Python developers.
Two quick high-level comments.
One, Corey Adkins from the live stream says,
"Would it be the same or worse for quantum computers?"
- Okay, I'm gonna talk out of my depth here.
So the first, like the best and second use, I don't know.
And then to go beyond that,
like my understanding of computers
is that they do very different things
you can't just compare the computations made on classical computers with the things quantum
computers are intended for. I think intrinsically because of the state of that technology, it
is extremely energy intensive, just because you usually have to pull things down to a
few millikelvins or something like that. So that may be transitory. I'm not sure. I don't
I don't want to talk too much about that.
- I don't know about that either.
Yeah, I was thinking the same thing.
Just yesterday, Google had Google I/O
and they talked about building clusters
of qubit sort of supercomputer type things.
And apparently they've got to cool it down so much
that it's some of the coldest places
in the universe inside those.
So on one hand,
if quantum computers can do the math super quick,
it doesn't take a lot of time to run them
to get the answer.
But on the other,
you've got to keep them that cold, that can't be free.
- But it's a very critical kind of map, right?
And not all problems are translatable
from the classical formulation
to a quantum compatible formulation.
And I think, I'm not sure,
I think there are problems that we can solve easily
on our classical computers that would be very hard,
if not theoretically impossible to run on quantum computers.
And it's like, it's a different tool
and it's not intended for the same problems.
So I think it's hard to compare.
- Yeah.
Makes sense.
- I would even say that you will still have some parts
of the model training that won't run on quantum computers
because that doesn't make sense,
like preprocessing data, getting data
from a different data source,
mapping them to a common format, exporting your model,
creating Docker images, servers,
that there will still be part of the model training process
that won't run on those quantum computers.
- Yeah.
Another thing I think is worth pointing out
is it's the training of the models that is expensive,
but to use them to get an answer, it's pretty quick, right?
That's pretty low cost.
- It depends on what you're using it for, right?
So if you have a user-facing model that's going to serve thousands of requests per second,
then deploying it for a year might be more energy-intensive than training it for three
days.
We all know the machine learning lifecycle is not just like you train one model and you
succeed and, well, hooray, right?
You usually have a lot of iterations, building the models, looking for hyperparameters and
But even if that takes six months and your model stays online for months or years and
serving thousands of people, it's not obvious.
It might even be worse.
Not worse, more energy intensive to infer.
Yeah, I guess it depends how many times you run it.
Another thought, there's a lot of places creating models, like you talked about, was it GPT-3?
and whatnot that are training the models
and letting people use them.
Do you see that as a thing that might be useful
and helpful as having these pre-created pre-trained models?
Like I know Microsoft has a bunch of pre-trained models
with their cognitive services
and Apple has their ML stuff like baked into their devices
that you don't have to train, you can just use.
Are the problems being solved
and the data being understood usually too general
Or is that something we can make use of?
- I think pre-trained models as the advantage to keep,
as you are training a model once,
the cost emission of the model during training
is amortized for each usage.
So more user you have,
the more the part of the training emission is low.
But usually, you still have to tune the model a bit,
so you still have to train it,
and you're using energy even for prediction.
So yes, and no.
I'm going to also do the transition to throw the ball
to Jonathan for something I think we shouldn't forget
when we talk about these gains in efficiency,
which is the Jevons paradox and the fact
that if you create something that is cheaper to use
and more people use it, then the overall impact is it lower.
And I think this is something we tend to forget when we talk
about massive improvements-- or not even massive,
just like this is something that is, I think,
hard to grasp and anticipate when
you think about technological advances
under the constraint of climate change.
But this rebound effect, I think,
is something we should plan for and not just think, well,
If you have cheaper models, but more people can use them,
I think it's not that obvious that it's an overall gain
in terms of energy.
Then you can talk about all the societal consequences
and the advances in cancer research, for instance.
But I think it's really hard to have a definitive answer.
Yeah, just to build on what Victor said,
it really is a difficult--
this is a classic environmental conundrum, right?
when you, you know, the classic example
of the Jevons paradox is, you know,
adding more roads leads to more traffic
because more people believe that there's more space
for them to drive.
And so you've seen this over and over again
in all sorts of different contexts
that when you build these tools,
more people will use them and that can end up costing more
than not building them in the first place.
So I think this is something to really be aware of,
you know, as we're sort of democratizing
these kinds of tools.
there's a real pro here, there's some real strengths of having these tools easily accessible
and that can be used. But one has to worry about the potential costs of having
all these tools being employed, in particular being employed in all sorts of different
kind of sub-energy grids around the world. Not all grids are connected up to solar panels.
You know many are connected, you know to coal-fired power plants and yeah, we cannot wait. It's not it's not today. Is it?
Yeah, not yet. Not yet one would hope but
maybe soon
when I thought about pre-trained model is
Usually they they are trained for more diverse usage. So I
Would think that they tend to be larger than model train
especially for a single usage inside a single company
with a single type of data.
So I would say they are likely bigger,
so they use more energy to train and to use,
but by how much, I couldn't say.
- Yeah, well, I think the paradox
that you all are speaking about,
one of the ways we could see that is
just the ability to use machine learning
to solve problems is so much easier now
that what used to be a simple if else runs in a microsecond,
is now a much more complicated part of your program.
And so, yeah, there's gotta be
just a raising of the cost there.
Now, before we make it all sound like machine learning bad
for the environment 100%, there are good things.
Like I said, Google I/O was yesterday
and they were talking about doing the navigation
so that taking into account things like topography,
speed and whatnot to actually try to optimize, minimize gas consumption with the directions
they give you. And if they could do that with a little bit of computer code to save a ton of
CO2 out of cars, that's a really big win for ML. Definitely. And I think the reason why we're,
like, we have started with the online carbon emissions on our side at Mila in Montreal,
and Jonathan and colleagues at Harvard with energy usage.
And then we came together for food government.
It's not to say that machine learning is bad,
like just as most technologies,
it's technology and it depends on how you use it.
But where we're going as societies
under the constraint of climate change
can't leave any field out of questioning themselves
of how they use their resources.
So it's something you can't leave out of the picture,
which doesn't mean that you can't use it.
It's like, you have to think about it.
And we can't have a single rule for everyone.
It's just, you have to take that into account,
and you can very well make the decision that it is worth it.
And in many cases, it will be.
Sometimes, maybe not.
- Be conscious of it, yeah, for sure.
All right, so I think that brings us to your project,
CodeCarbon.
You mentioned it a couple of times.
So looking in from the outside,
it seems to me like the primary thing
that what you guys have done
is you've built some Python libraries,
a Python package that lets you answer these questions
and track these things, right?
And then a dashboard and data that will help you improve it.
Is that a good elevator pitch?
- Very good.
- Fantastic.
All right, so tell us about Carbon.
- Yeah, sure.
- We don't have any money though.
- Oh, good.
Yeah, but I think it's a great cause.
And so tell us, tell everyone about it.
- Thank you for the opportunity.
I think one of the reasons we came together was like,
we all know that in the machine learning life cycle,
a lot of the computations you just forget about
because there are so many experiments that you run.
Like say you have a project
and you're gonna work on it for like three, six, 12 months,
how many experiments are you gonna run?
How many hyperparameter searches are you gonna run?
It's a very important problem.
I think this is also something that is central
to Comet.ml, which is the company where Boris works
and they manage experiments.
And I use that in my daily work.
And I thought, well, we need something similar
to track the carbon impact.
It can't just be about the metrics.
It can't just be about the images you generate
because you're training a GAN, for instance.
So how do we go about this?
And well, because Python was,
is I think the go-to language for AI research
and development also,
although in very optimized settings,
you might want to go away from that.
But we thought, well, we need to do something
that is gonna be plug and play.
So it has to be Python.
It has to run in the background.
It has to be light.
And it has to be also something that is versatile
in that it is not only about your just getting
yet another metric, but it's also about understanding
what it means.
It's about also education.
It's about education for yourself,
but also maybe for other members of your organization.
The people who might say, like, say you work in a company
and you're thinking, well, I have hundreds of data scientists.
Like, this is not marginal.
I want to have an estimation.
And if estimations are not good enough for you,
well, contact your provider.
And maybe you have a wattmeter plugged in somewhere
where it matters.
It's not my expertise.
That's basically the idea.
- Yeah, yeah, plug it in a wattmeter somewhere.
That used to be a thing that you could do,
but now it's Amazon or Azure or Linode or whoever,
they're not gonna let you go plug it into their data center.
And if you did, there's probably a bunch
of other things happening there, right?
Direct access to the compute resources
is just hard to come by.
- Yep.
- Exactly.
This is a very big constraint for us, right?
This is-- and we're going to--
I think I expect we'll get into a little more details
about that.
But this is why you need to understand
cut carbon as a tool to estimate things and have approximations.
And we use heuristics.
And basically, if a consultant is
having you pay for carbon offsets
based on those kinds of numbers, you shouldn't pay.
Because that's not the point.
Yeah.
- Yeah, it's really about giving you the information.
One of the things I like about what you're doing
is you can recommend other areas,
like we talked about,
like you could switch to this data center
and then it would have this impact, right?
- Yeah, I think it's part of the educational mission.
It's like, we all know, or at least I wish we all knew,
or we want everyone to know, I don't know how to put that,
but that it's, climate change is a very serious threat
And being conscious about your energy usage
and your consumption of resources in general
is one thing, it's very important,
but then I think you consciously leave people
out there with that feeling of guilt
and there has to be actionable items.
So changing your region is probably
the easiest thing you can do,
especially in the age of the cloud
and at a time when basically moving your data
across continents is about ticking a few checkboxes
on a web interface, right?
So--
- Yeah.
- What do you think, just to pick up a little bit
on what Victor said here, is that this is a,
the educational part of this is a very important part
of the CodeCarbon project because we know
as we have been involved in this that answering
this question, what's the CO2 footprint of my computational work, is actually a very,
very difficult question to answer. And it's opaque for a variety of reasons. It's opaque
because the way that the energy industry deals with CO2 emissions is pretty opaque, unless
you know the language of how they express this. And it's also difficult to understand
when you are able to make the calculation, what does that mean? What's one gram of CO2
relative to, you know, say, everyday activities.
So one of the things that we've tried to do
as part of this dashboard
is simplify those two steps for people.
'Cause we've been approached by people,
you know, via email, via Slack,
and we know we're not the only people concerned about this.
And so this is just a way to help make these approximations
both visible, but also, you know, kind of comprehensible
and put it in the context of human activities.
- Right, there's a lot of layers and, you know,
companies that run the clouds,
they are trying to be more responsible with their energy,
but you don't know.
A lot of times you don't know if this data center,
you know, US, East One and AWS,
how much energy from different sources
is that actually using,
how much have they actually, you know,
built their own solar and wind?
We don't know, right?
But get a better sense using your tool.
who got better data than the random person
who just kind of estimates,
well, they're doing some stuff, so it must be fine.
- And another important thing I think is,
and Jonathan is much more an expert in that than I am,
but like not emitting is very different
from offsetting in whatever way, Rex or whatever.
- Yeah, that's a good point.
- Your emissions and our atmosphere,
our climate has inertia
and the expected compensation in 5, 10, 20 years of your current emissions,
those are two very different things, right?
And it's much easier to put carbon in the atmosphere than taking it away from it.
And so I think it's not just because you read that Google and others,
Microsoft are carbon neutral, which comes from compensations of many forms.
doesn't mean no carbon was emitted.
Yeah, just to build on Victor's point again,
there's decades of research in what you'd call environmental psychology,
showing that explaining to people the consequences of inaction
or of diffuse environmental costs to a particular action
causes long-term behavior change.
And I think one of the things that's been really exciting about
seeing the machine learning and AI communities grapple with this question in a very public way
is we've started to see articles of pressure being put on organizations to, "Why don't we
have more green energy infrastructure undergirding our work?" And so the speed at which this has
become a public conversation is really heartening as somebody who's been working in the environment
for quite a bit of time. Yeah, I would say it does seem to be getting a lot of attention,
which is good. It's a big problem, but attention instead of just head in the sand is a really big
deal. Like we've been driving cars for a long time. We've been flying planes for a long time.
There's a lot of like raised trucks with super big wheels with dual, you know,
cold stack pipes on them, right? Like that's, that's, I can't speak for everyone that gets a
truck like that, but I feel there's a lot of times when we have these conversations,
people are just like, well, this is so horrible and so vague that I'm just going to live my life
and enjoy it because I seem to not be able to do anything anyway. So I might as well have fun
instead of not have fun while things are going wrong. Right. Like that's, that's kind of that
psychology, right? And so I don't know, how do you all deal with that?
And it's also something that's like when it's not before your eyes, it's much more difficult to
understand and to respond to. And I think this is part of what we're seeing today with
decades of activism is like, facts, hard facts are not enough to convince humans and
and to some extent, it's also a good thing.
And it has, I think, it has value in our recognition.
But it also has this downside that it's just
because you say a number to someone,
if they don't understand it,
if they don't see it for themselves in their everyday life,
it's gonna be very hard to understand.
So until you have used something like CodeCarbon,
like I code every day, I train models every day,
and I train a model for five days on a GPU in Quebec.
That's my daily life basically.
And some might find it dull.
I like it.
Anyway, that's not the point.
I mean, until you have that and you're like,
oh, this is what I do.
Those numbers start to make sense.
- Yeah.
- And Evan, if you have numbers for your day to day
that doesn't seem that much,
like thousands of grams or kilograms.
But once you sum all the emission
for all the model train, for all the machine learning teams,
for all the machine learning data scientists
for a company for a year, or even for academia,
that start to get, depending on your size of the company,
of course, that start to get sizable,
and you might want to take a serious look at it.
- Yeah.
All right, I want to dive into the code and talk about this.
But I guess maybe speak really quickly to,
I work at a company.
We make shoes.
They want me to use ML to figure out
how to get better behaviors out of the materials for track
runners or whatever.
So I do that.
How do I get that company to say, yes, we
should measure our scientific data science work
and we should offset it.
There's a lot of layers between the people who care about shoes
and sales and people who care about machine learning carbon
offsets.
My personal understanding of this situation
is that empowering individuals with tools and numbers
to convince organizations is part of our mission.
So if the person in charge, whatever their role in the organization, thinks that in order
to have an estimation of their carbon impact, they have to find a consulting firm, pay people
for five weeks, and if they think this is the process, they're going to be reluctant.
And I can understand why.
you have a plug and play tool that even you as the evangelizer, if that's a word,
but you get the idea, even if it doesn't cost you much to try. But I mean, the way
we want to build this thing is just like one import and a couple of lines.
Yeah, so let's talk about the code. I think maybe the answer, maybe an
approach that you could have there is we'll run something like this on all of
of the training that we do, and then we're going to report up
our division and this company generates this much carbon.
So if you care about carbon,
you need to take that into account.
- I think that's a good starting point.
I think as we can see today together,
I mean, those conversations are hard and long
and it's not easy to understand all that matters
and you may need that consulting firm in the end
to help you understand what's at stake
in your whole value chain.
you gotta start somewhere, right?
And if you're an individual
and you wanna change your organization,
well, I think if you wanna have an impact,
those kinds of tools should be easy to start with.
And then, as we've said, it's not enough
and it's not precise enough,
and then there are other steps you can take,
but you need to get the conversations going and start it.
- And to start that, you gotta start measuring.
So in order to do that, let's talk about the code.
It's literally four lines of code.
It's all you gotta do.
You pip install code carbon,
and then from code carbon, import emissions tracker.
Create one, tracker.start, do your training,
tracker.stop, and that's it, right?
- Right, and with the decorator solution,
it's even two lines of code.
- Yeah, with the decorator,
you can just put a decorator on a function,
and then basically any training that happens during that
will be measured and then saved to a CSV file, right?
- That's it. - That's correct.
- And if you think a context manager should be implemented,
well, you're welcome to create a PR.
It's gonna be super easy.
Everything is already there.
- Yeah, exactly.
I can already see it in my mind with the missions tracker,
as tracker.
Cool.
So it creates one of these CSV files and then what?
- So there are a bunch of things that happen.
If you wanna, like the two big steps are one,
you look for the hardware you understand,
you like code carbon understands,
then you track those, you measure the energy consumed.
And so you have that, basically you measure the energy.
And then next step is, well, how much carbon
does this energy has emitted, has this energy emitted?
And so you need to map the code to your location.
- Right, and do you do that by just like a get location
from IP address type of thing?
- Exactly.
- I'm like--
- So you can either do that or provide the country ISO code
for a couple of countries, Canada and the US,
we have regions below the national level.
Another thing that you can actually do is,
or it's not gonna help you with the location,
but it's gonna help you with the,
the carbon impact is we can ping CO2 signal,
which is an API that is being developed
by the electricity map initiative group organization
company, whatever their status.
And so that's gonna help you have an exact estimation
at that moment in time,
depending on what data you have of those computations.
Otherwise, we need to have your country code
and we're gonna map that to historical data.
- This CO2 signal, this is new to me.
What is this?
- I think you'd better look at then the, exactly.
- Look at the map?
- Exactly.
So they have products, they have predictions
of carbon emissions and so on,
but that's basically, it's an initiative.
The organization is called Tomorrow.
And the goal here, at least with the electricity map,
is to gather data about carbon intensity and the energy
mix of countries through the forest of APIs and standards
countries have for countries and companies
and have for that kind of thing.
So you can see that, at a level in Canada, not all--
or in the US, not all regions are gonna work similarly
and some regions might not even provide
that kind of data in the open.
- Yeah, that's too bad.
Yeah, but it's really different
depending on where you are in just even the US, right?
Like in the Pacific Northwest,
I think it's like very high levels of hydro.
Southeast, there's a lot of coal still.
It's not just what country,
it's even like maybe a little more granular than that, right?
at least for large places.
- Yes, and also, as you can see,
I think this is also a very interesting map
because you can see that energy grids
are very different from the grid that you know,
like nation, state, whatever is after that, right?
- Yeah, county, city, yeah, all that.
- County, city, all of that.
Like you can see, for example,
the one that spans something like Iowa to...
I was thinking state-related or like this thing that goes from Montana to Texas or something.
Yeah, that doesn't look like any state I learned in school.
No, but it's probably a unified grid for some reason because
providers got together for under some constraints.
Yep, yeah, exactly. So when I'm looking at this code here,
I run that and then I get this map and it can give you recommendations on the cloud
cloud regions, right, and where you might go.
So for example, see--
- So you're on the left.
This is something that we might wanna change, right?
The UI of this thing might not be obvious,
but you're on the left.
But this, I just wanted to make this clarification
'cause even I sometimes forget,
I'm like, where was this thing run?
Oh, that's actually, yeah, you run on the left
and we show you how it could have been different
somewhere else.
- Yeah, so if I pick say US West one for AWS
versus EU West three,
you can see the relative carbon offset or production,
how bad that was or how good it was.
And these are all comes from those reports
generated out of that CSV file.
- Exactly. - That's great.
- So I just wanna be clear about how the data was gathered
'cause that's a very important topic.
So we still need to update the data for GCP, Google Cloud
Platform, because they recently released those numbers.
But for most of those locations, we had to make an assumption.
The assumption was that the data center
was plugged to the local grid.
So if a data center is in Boston,
we assume the data center uses the same energy
as Boston's grid, which might not be the case, right?
Many providers now have their own solar panels and whatnot.
So that might not be the case.
And so, but unless they release those numbers
and there's, I can find the link, I'll share it with you.
Unless we have those numbers publicized by the providers,
I mean, there's only so much we can do, right?
So.
- Yeah, well, here's a call to action
for those who haven't released it.
Get on it, right?
I think it was part of Jonathan's message earlier,
which is like, there are so many layers
and so many of them are okay.
That's part of the, I think, our responsibility as users.
- Yeah.
- I don't like to put too much weight
on individuals' shoulders,
and I think structural changes have a much wider,
well, much more potential,
but I think it's still interconnected,
and if you can do something about it, well, you should.
- Yeah, let's talk a little bit about running it.
So when I go over here and I say start and then stop,
like how do you know how much energy I've used?
I mean, I know once it leaves the computer,
like there's a lot of assumptions and various things
like we talked about,
but how do you estimate how much that that code has taken?
- That's a very good question.
And Victor, can I answer this one?
- Oh yes, sure.
- Okay, so when you are training
and you're running a machine learning program,
you are mostly using GPU,
and you are mostly using NVIDIA GPU.
And thankfully, NVIDIA has a nice SDK
to get, at a given time, the current,
estimated that plus or minus 5% energy usage of the GPU.
- Oh, really?
Okay, so it's not like you're saying,
"Oh, it's a 3070 Super,
and it must be pinned CPU-wise or GPU-wise. So let's just assume this much time times this kind
of computer, it gives you more narrow exact measurements. Okay, fantastic.
But we still get the energy consumption from all GPU. So if you are trying multiple models,
we might get higher or lower energy estimation. I'm not sure there. So that's for GPU.
For CPU, we are supporting Intel, and we have several ways of doing that.
Either we get a measurement at the beginning of the training and at the end,
and we get the total energy usage between the two, so we can get the difference.
Or we can also regularly get the immediate usage, I think.
we are working to add memory usage because even if GPU and CPU are the top most
resources that you use for multi-gigabytes server, it tends to be not negligible.
Probably disk as well. Yeah, disk, everything takes energy. The goal is to focus on what takes
most of the energy and how easy it is to get that consumption.
So you get all of that either during the training frequently or at the beginning and the end.
In addition, we get the duration and we detect if you're running in a data center or not.
So in case we don't have access to anything, like you're running on AMD GPU, on an AMD
CPU on Windows, we can still give you an estimation based on the duration and on your estimated
location or if you are running inside a data center or a specific location, we can also
get a more precise estimation for you.
and we are measuring what energy usage,
and then we can use our data to estimate again,
estimation of estimation,
of the CO2 emitted for that usage.
- I don't know how deep you want to go into how it works,
but I do want to point out--
- Give us a little look inside, yeah.
- Yeah, given that it's one of the most difficult area,
I think I also want to use your platform
to call for help, which is it's actually the low level
inner workings of CPUs are, I mean, hard to understand,
at least for me, I have a background
and I'm a researcher, right?
So it's an area where we--
- Not necessarily a hardware specialist, right?
You're writing on hardware, yeah.
- Exactly, and so for example,
like the way we read the energy consumption of Intel CPUs,
I mean, the GPUs, as Boris said, have, at least NVIDIA's GPUs,
have this driver that we can ping,
and NVIDIA SMI is--
all the PY and VML package is very useful,
because we can just ping this and not
care about how it's done, and trust NVIDIA
and use that number.
But for the CPUs, it's much more complicated.
The reason is that what happens under the hood
is modern Intel CPUs under the right settings,
write actually their energy usage,
millijoules to a text file.
It's the RAPL interface and they write to a text file
the number of millijoules they have consumed since,
I don't know when, since they were turned on
or the 1st of January 1970 or whatever the run date.
What matters is that, and we look at the difference
But those numbers are written by the CPU socket.
So let me give you an example.
In the academic setting where I work, we have shared clusters.
I can request part of a node, and I'm going to request one GPU and 20 CPUs to do my computations.
But what I saw looking at the rebel files is that there are two sockets of 40 CPUs.
We have 80 CPUs per node and two sockets of 40.
So there's no way to read from the rebel file.
So your granularity is 40.
And the CPUs that are allocated to me might change over time, maybe not.
It depends on the resource manager.
We use Sturm.
And those CPUs will be split across those two sockets.
And so we have that level of problems too, right?
So the high level, you're working in a dedicated environment and it's only your program, then
RAPL is perfect and we couldn't have dreamt for something better.
But it does not allow us to go to the core, let alone the process granularity of power
consumption.
So I just want to put a big warning here.
And one of the things that we need to look into--
and it's very hard, and I don't know the numbers.
Maybe even what I'm going to say won't make sense.
But the only solution we have left
is, is there some kind of heuristic
to map the CPU utilization to the energy consumption,
basically?
Because otherwise, we're never going to be able to attribute
your processes and sub-processes' CPU usage to watts, basically.
>>Yeah. >>Because of this RAPL setup
that is written by a socket.
And I've talked a little to people who understand this way better than I do,
and they thought this endeavor was very risky.
They were pessimistic.
And you're like, what else do we have to work with, right?
- Yeah, and so I think the next thing is like,
we're gonna need to get our hands on hardware,
have it run and see how bad it is.
And it's gonna be one setup with one mode
for the compilation of the math libraries
I'm gonna use to benchmark and whatnot.
Like, there's only so much we can do
if the hardware providers don't tell us more.
It would be nice to see operating systems and then the hardware providers as well allow
you to access that information, right?
Like how much voltage am I currently consuming with just this process, right?
You don't want to profile it because if you profile it, you'll be like 50% of the problem,
right?
And you'll slow it down and people won't want to touch it.
So yeah.
I've seen and talked to people at Power API and PiJewel initiatives. And even they, from
what I remember, explained that even if you had total control on the software or the hardware,
both of those things are going to be so dependent on the way you compile the libraries you use
And a number of other facts that it's even the very definition of those things that we're looking for is not obvious.
Or whether it's Linux versus macOS versus Windows, it's got to make a difference.
It all matters. And the reason why I think it's still worth looking for an approximation through security utilization, even if it's a bad proxy is it's all about proxies.
So it doesn't matter if you're precise to the millijoule
on your CPU if your uncertainty around carbon emissions
is huge.
>>Victor: Yeah, otherwise you end up with something as much
carbon as five cars, right?
>>Romain: Yeah.
>>Victor: And so--
>>Kyle: We can get it down to 2.1 or 2.2 cars.
Come on, let's go with that.
>>Romain: Yeah.
So it's really a very complex endeavor.
Yeah, yeah, absolutely.
So it sounds like it runs on multiple platforms.
It sounds like it supports Intel.
>>We'll try to, at least.
>>Yeah, yeah.
So Windows, Linux, macOS.
I'm sitting here recording on my Mac mini M1 Apple Silicon.
Can I run it here?
>>Yeah.
You would need to install the Intel Power Gadget,
restart your computer, allow specific security permissions.
It's not an Intel CPU.
So I'm guessing it will be back to the simple heuristic based on the situation.
We realized actually the Intel Power Gadget also tracks some AMD CPUs.
Like we had a user say, "Oh, you don't seem to support AMD."
And then they still installed the Intel Power Gadget.
I don't know why, but they did. And then it worked.
So I'm like, I'm not sure how this thing works.
So Intel AMD, but maybe not Apple Silicon.
- Yeah.
- I'm not sure.
- I don't think so.
- Okay, well, probably most people
won't be doing training on that.
- I think the Silicon app,
sorry, the Apple Silicon platform
has a dedicated course for machine learning.
- It does have, I think, 16 ML cores.
Yeah, so yeah, maybe, maybe they are.
They're coming out with the Mac Pro,
which is supposed to have many, many cores.
So maybe that'll be where people do it more, but.
- So if Apple is hearing us,
send us a Mac mini and we'll work on improving the tracking.
- And one Mac mini is for all three of you,
the whole team, come on, let's send it along.
Make it happen.
- You have my Twitter handle, send me a message.
- Fantastic, all right.
Let's see, before we move on,
quick question from Brian in the live stream.
Other than moving to different data centers,
what are some of the highest impact changes
people can make, different training methods, and so on.
And by the way, that also leads exactly into where I was going.
Thank you for that very timely question.
Like patterns and things you can do.
Let's talk about that.
One of the things that we wrote in the "Contemplating
the Carbon Emissions of Machine Learning" paper--
it's on the website--
is, while there's hyperparameter searches,
one of the worst things you can do,
both in terms of pure ML performance
and carbon emissions is grid search, for instance.
So maybe just don't do that.
If you're lazy, just do a random hyperparameter search,
or if you don't have a good metric,
or use Bayesian optimizers and so on
to look for those hyperparameters.
Another thing that is not mentioned in that paper,
but I think is still very important,
and that cycles back to one of your first questions
about inference versus training,
is there are many methods out there,
pruning, distillation, quantization,
all that zoo of tools and techniques and algorithms
to optimize your model.
And if you're happy with your current model,
chances are there are many techniques out there
that can reduce its size and computational complexity
by multiple factors.
So if you're going to put a product out there with hundreds,
thousands, millions of inferences,
maybe just think about that.
I expect people who deploy such tools do think about that.
If you're deploying a tool for millions,
it's in your interest to think about it.
Because it's also going to be cheaper.
You're probably thinking more about it in terms of just time.
Time to train, time to get an answer.
But that also is exactly lining up with energy consumed.
So, you know, CO2 reduction comes along for the ride.
- Yeah, it's often the case that if you invest
in ecological solutions,
they are gonna end up being economical to you.
- Yeah.
- Jonathan, it's more of your area.
- Oh, definitely.
- Maybe that's another way to go to you.
- Oh, I couldn't underscore that more.
I think, you know, something that I think
that has come out of our results that we've seen
is that there's not a strictly linear trade-off
between energy usage and accuracy, for example.
There's often, there's a shoulder usually there
and finding that shoulder using code carbon
to figure out, you know, if I throw, you know,
this fraction of a kilogram of CO2 at this problem,
I'm actually gonna get a lower accuracy
than if I had stopped beforehand.
So using a tool to figure out, you know, where that is,
I think is very helpful.
And so just being aware of the impact of it
trying to maximize for accuracy and not just energy usage.
- Right, yeah, one of the things you called out
is more energy, which means more emissions,
is not necessarily more accuracy.
- Yes. - Adding on
more particular solution, for example,
when you're doing a hyper parameter search,
which is basically, are you doing the combination
of numbers of variables and try to find the best combination
to get the best results, the best, more precise model
or whatever metrics you are optimizing for,
you will likely, most of the machine learning libraries
have an option to do early stop.
Like instead of doing training new model for four days
for all hundreds and thousands of combination,
you train 10 of them for one day
and then you see how it evolve.
And if you take only two best of them and try again,
you can reduce your training time and emission
by a lot of percentage.
And on other protocol, you can also move all known,
all the code that doesn't need GPU
to run something somewhere else, like for CPU,
then you store it on disk,
it's still emitting less emission
than not using the GPU on your server,
and try to use your GPU better,
even by training more model on the same GPU
or changing your model to be more efficient
to train in less time.
- Interesting. - And one of the things
that we've also advocated for,
and it can sound a little naive,
but as Jonathan said earlier,
this field has been moving fast,
is to publish and be transparent about those things.
And I think if the community shows interest
and shows that it is one of the broader impact features
that they look for when they think about the systems
they create and deploy.
I think it's also something that can spread in other areas
than just your very specific niche of research.
And since I'm thinking about the research community here,
but 'cause that's my environment,
But I think it's also the case in the industry.
>> Yeah.
Another thing that you all talked about
is if you're computing locally, so maybe at your university
or in your house these days is probably where you are,
the local energy infrastructure matters, right?
>> It does.
It does.
For example, Quebec has an average of, I think,
20 grams of CO2 per kilowatt hour or something,
which is probably 40 times lower than some other regions.
You can check the, well, no,
'cause Quebec doesn't share their data with electricity,
it's a shame, but you can see other,
if you just compare the results in Europe, for instance,
and you look for France, which is--
- Like France versus Germany, yeah.
- Yeah, it has a nuclear electricity grid,
mostly France, right?
So if you compare France to Germany,
it's gonna be very different.
- 95% low carbon, that's well done France.
Good job Boris.
- And, but even if you, I think if you click on Germany,
what you'll see is you might have a time series somewhere
for the last 24 hours.
- At least have this nice breakdown over here.
- You have that and, right.
- Yeah, you can move it over.
Yeah, there's your time series.
- Right, so you can even see that during the day,
it's not the same.
And just like your electricity provider
will charge you differently for different times of usage,
like high demand or lower demand times of the day,
and like carbon emissions are also gonna have
that kind of variation that you could care for.
- Yeah, one thing I wanted to give a quick shout out to,
I don't know about different locations.
Here in Portland, one of the options we have
is to choose a slightly different energy choice.
If we pay $6 more per month, or $11 as a small business,
it will basically be wind and solar.
And if your local grid offers something
where you literally pay $6
and it can dramatically change it,
like, do the world a favor, opt in.
- Yeah, and we have the equivalent in France also.
Same in the United States, there's a patchwork of different state laws that mandate that
these options are made available to people.
So yeah, definitely take advantage of it.
Yeah.
Yeah, it's, I mean, it literally is a checkbox.
Do you want to have this yes or no and a small fee?
And they probably, you know, honestly, probably what's happening when you check that box,
like some of that energy would have just gone to the general grid and now it's promised
to you.
But soon as enough people check that box to go beyond the capacity, then that's going
to be an economic driver to make more of it happen.
So hopefully, we can get there.
Although I suspect data centers are
where the majority of the computation happens.
I mean, I'm not backing this by any knowledge here.
It's just my personal perception.
But I feel like it's too little.
This is too cheap.
How come it's so cheap?
So many things in our data lab should actually
be more expensive if we knew how much energy and resources
and how much they cost the environment.
So it feels like it's a no-brainer when it's so easy
and it's so cheap in this case.
But how many other areas of our data lab and consumptions
have those classes?
Would you pay three times as much to fly?
Would you pay $3,000 a go from France to Portland
than $1,000 or whatever, that's a harder thing than checking a $6 box. Yeah, and probably a
harder problem. But luckily, we're talking about computers and ML and not air transportation. So
you don't have to solve it here. We'll do that next time. Speaking of solving it here,
what's next? Where are things going for you all in the future?
So I'm a PhD student at Miller in Montral, so it's Quebec's AI institute.
So I feel like I'm going to stay there for at least two or three more years until I finish this PhD and then we'll see.
Yeah. But the other two, where are you going with this project?
Oh, that was about the project. I'm sorry, I missed the point.
Also, yeah.
Yeah, I think that we've got some things on the horizon.
One is that the other part sort of under the hood
that's kind of complicated is deriving the energy mix
and getting the CO2 intensity of the energy grid
from the energy mix.
So figuring out, okay, if you know you have X percent
natural gas, X percent coal and X percent oil,
how does that translate into CO2 emissions?
And that's actually an extremely complicated problem
to answer because we have different chemical compositions
of coal around the world, for example.
Coal that comes out of Kentucky has a different CO2 impact
per joule from combustion than coal that comes out
of Wyoming, for example.
So we've got all these different layers to figure out.
Well, you've got like oil sands of Canada versus Saudi Arabia
or whatever, right?
Exactly.
Yeah.
And all of these sort of chemical differences matter,
and they reflect different efficiencies.
and that's not even getting into the difference in hardware
in different power plants.
So what we want to do is we want to actually dive in a bit deeper
and get at some of these regional differences in carbon intensity
and plug them into the dataset here
so that we can refine our estimates as much as possible.
Yeah, and shout out to the cloud providers,
provide more data.
To the CPU providers, provide more hooks,
things like that, right?
My hope for the project is that in a few years,
we don't need this project anymore.
Because we are doing estimation of estimation of estimation,
and there are better people in the industry,
cloud providers and hardware vendors
that are better suited to get more precise data.
But until then, I hope that the project can help companies
be aware of their mission, take action on that,
and allow the project to be more precise
and give some estimation range for everything we are measuring.
I feel like there are five to ten companies in the world
that can control all of the information you have.
So we've got Intel, AMD, Apple for the chips,
we've got AMD and NVIDIA for the cards,
and Azure, AWS, GCP.
Like, if they all provided more information,
then this would be not much of an estimate, more of a measure.
So a couple of comments from the live stream.
Corey Adkin says, thank you all.
I've recommended this package to my ML team, which is awesome.
And then--
Thank you, Corey.
Yeah, and then Ryan Clark says, the efficiency
varies widely between countries and whatnot.
But you sort of addressed that already
with your comment about trying to work
to understand the different sources and how they,
even though they both look like coal, for example,
they're actually not the same.
- Yeah, it's a really great question.
And it really is something that,
we've relied on data from the US
because we have the highest resolution of this
and of the CO2 impact per energy consumed.
And we have the most transparency about the numbers.
It's not just a number,
in the end of a report or a footnote of a report,
we can actually trace it and do some due diligence on that.
So we've used those numbers,
but if anybody listening to this or hearing this
has a connection with any of those companies,
the hardware companies,
or knows how to get more energy data,
we are always looking for collaborators and contributors.
So please reach out to us.
- Yeah, fantastic.
All right, I know we're pretty much
at the end of our time together.
So let me just ask you one really quick question.
So I have a thing I wanna, a model I wanna train.
So I'm gonna fire up a Docker image,
maybe a set of them on Kubernetes,
and I kick them off, let them go do their thing.
Then I'm gonna come back next week, have another idea.
Then I'm gonna train up some more things.
Maybe my colleague is doing the same.
This is gonna generate a bunch of a mission.csv files.
How do I correlate?
How do I put these all together so that I can see like,
as a team, this month is here we are.
Is that something that happens?
So I'm really glad you asked this question
because this is something we're working on.
So currently I think you can just sum up those CSV files.
- I think it's up to you to track and like say,
okay, here's when we're sending in from this route.
- Yeah.
- Okay.
- CSV files have a lot of downsides.
It's less object oriented and you could have a JSON file
that would be more structured and so on,
but at least it's very easily.
- It's super easy.
- And you can just alternate them, right?
- I think it's totally good actually.
It's more about the,
it's going to be transient files in lots of places.
How do I put them into one place so I see it as a whole?
Yeah.
- So what we've been working on lately
with a team of volunteers in France
with the data for good that FR initiative
is to create and deploy an API in a database.
So we want to create this online storage of the time series
and not just the final sum
and have that in a hierarchy of ownership
from the organization to the single run
through teams and projects.
That requires a lot of work.
That requires deployment,
that requires fans and sponsors to host that thing.
That requires a lot of engineering.
And I'm glad you asked that question
Because I also wanted to have one word about open source and who's doing this.
And it's all about volunteers.
And no one is paid for that.
And companies like Comet, or the Boston Consulting Group, who have been a partner for more than
a year, do dedicate some software engineering time.
And we need more collaborations.
And if you think this tool is great and you want to use it, I think we would really appreciate
if some of you had time to help because it's a small team of volunteers.
And it's the same for most open source projects out there, and they need collaborators and
contributors.
And I think it's one of the things you can do also is help out.
And most of it is pure Python, right?
So chances are you're gonna be able to help.
And, or if you don't know Python,
there's some data collection issues
and it's just about writing to a CSV file.
You just gotta find the time to go fetch those numbers.
There are data visualization issues
to help improve the dashboard.
And so it's never ending, so everyone's gonna help.
- Yeah, it sounds like a really great project
to get involved in if people are looking
to find an open source thing to work on.
- Yeah, and we're willing to onboard you,
which also is sometimes--
- Yeah, that's great.
- Bumpy in open source projects.
And I think, I mean, it's hard and there are hundreds
of guides on how to contribute
to open source projects out there.
I think we want people, so like,
we're gonna help you help us.
- Yeah, very cool.
I encourage people to do so.
All right, final quick question before we get out of here.
Brian Hermsen says, "I know this would be a big ask,
"but I would love to see this as a built-in profiler
"for CPU-intensive ML libraries."
Yeah, that would be nice.
- We just told you CPU's super hard.
(laughing)
Yeah, I mean, it's, yeah, I think this is gonna go beyond
what we know and can do, but I agree with you.
It should be part of more decisions
in computer science in general and software engineering.
- Yep. - And hardware engineering
and everything.
- All right, let me ask you all the final two questions
really quickly since there's three of you.
If you're gonna write some Python code,
what editor do you use?
- VS Code. - Me too.
- Sublime, sorry guys.
(laughing)
- Right on, it's obvious. - I used to be a Sublime fan,
but VS Code is good now.
- I feel like a lot of the Sublime people
have moved on to VS Code, but Sublime's so popular as well.
Notable PyPI package, maybe some cool library
that works with some of the things you're all interested in.
Just quick, that maybe people haven't heard of.
- I like Rich, which is a super flexible,
colorful, versatile tool to print stuff
instead of writing again and again the same quacky print functions.
- They call it a TUI. A TUI. Is that it? Do they have it in there? A TUI.
A Terminal Universal Interface. That's right. That's so good.
- That's cool. - It's incredible.
- Yeah. And I just want to also give a shout-out to the computational
open source libraries like NumPy, scikit-learn, and Matplotlib, Pandas, and so on. Because
those things run the data science world, and it's all open source, non-profits,
and it's a few maintainers. And they deserve a lot of the credit for their recent advances.
They definitely do. Boris or John, you either want to give a quick shout out to anything?
if I will do some chainless marketing, I would say the Comet ML, Python SDK, but more
I would say as a FastAPI or some basis library that everyone use, request, and even just the
Python standard library, I know some CPython core developer that are doing a tremendous job.
It's a St. Clair's job, so thank you to them. >> Yeah, for sure. Yeah, everything Boris and
and Victor have recommended are great stuff.
>>Victor: Yeah, fantastic.
All right, well, final call to action.
People out there are listening.
They're doing machine learning.
They want to be able to use this to measure their work
and maybe make some change.
What do you say?
>>Juan: Use it, contribute, analyze, share.
I think most of the thing you can do about climate change
is spreading awareness, discussing those things,
and challenging the status quo.
Yeah, fantastic.
All right, Boris, Victor, John, thank you all for being here.
It's been really great to have you.
Thanks so much for your time.
Yeah, thanks for having us.
Have a great day, everyone.
Or evening, if you're in France.
Exactly, bye all.
Bye.